---
layout: post
title: Python virtual environments in Zed
author: kaangiray26
tags: [coding, python, zed, editor]
---

I've been using Zed as my main editor for over a month now. The reason I switched from VSCode was that VSCode was too slow when I was working with multiple windows open. Switching back and forth between windows was creating a lag that was unbearable. I saw Zed as a lightweight and crazy fast alternative, and I wanted to give it a try. There were some problems however...

### Python
Working with virtual environments right out of the box was not possible. Because Zed uses Microsoft's [Pyright](https://github.com/microsoft/pyright) language server, we have to add configurations for it based on its [documentation](https://microsoft.github.io/pyright/#/configuration). Usually, I name the virtual environment directory as `env`. So, keep that in mind when you're changing the settings for yourself. Here's what I did add in my `settings.json` file:

```json
...
"lsp": {
    "pyright": {
        "settings": {
            "python": {
                "pythonPath": "env/bin/python",
                "venvPath": "."
            }
        }
    }
}
...
```

Both `pythonPath` and `venvPath` were necessary in my case.

### Extra configurations
Besides setting options in the language server, we can directly add some extra configuration to Pyright using a `pyrightconfig.json` file in the root directory of your project. Here's an example of what I'm using:

```json
{
    "reportUnusedImport": true,
    "reportUnusedClass": true,
    "reportUnusedFunction": true,
    "reportUnusedVariable": true
}
```

I am using these settings to get warnings for unused things in my code. It's a good way to keep your code small and clean. If you're curious about other settings I'm using, check out my [dotfiles](https://github.com/kaangiray26/dotfiles/tree/main/zed) for Zed. Thanks for reading!